Notes/Possible Opportunities for Model Improvement.md, before:

- Examine how data from the datasets is filtered, there may be an improved filtering technique that can improve performance
	- Comparing MIRT ipynb implementation to NCDM paper shows that ipynb does not filter data the same way
- MIRT should use expectation max instead of GD
- 5x cross validation should be used in final draft of all ipynbs
- Use a model to determine which knowledge concepts are compensatory and which are partially compensatory ([[MIRT]]) before applying a unique MIRT formulation that combines the two models
	- Some skills could also be deterministic based on [[DINA]]
- Add a slip term if one is not being used
- Combining skills as a skill
- Often times the questions with the highest discrimination are the least useful in practice
- Improve performance by mining the interrelations of concepts and excluding spaces in the Q matrix where concepts never overlap. Alternatively mine the relationships between concepts based on where and how often they overlap
	- This might already happen in [[Chen, Xiangzhi, et al. 2024]]
## Implemented improvements
- reduced underflow in IRT model by stabilizing the update of the prior distribution

Commit message:

began implementation of NCDM, updated basic split function to optimize speed and provide validation set

Notes/Possible Opportunities for Model Improvement.md, after:

- Examine how data from the datasets is filtered, there may be an improved filtering technique that can improve performance
	- Comparing MIRT ipynb implementation to NCDM paper shows that ipynb does not filter data the same way
- MIRT should use expectation max instead of GD
- 5x cross validation should be used in final draft of all ipynbs
- Use a model to determine which knowledge concepts are compensatory and which are partially compensatory ([[MIRT]]) before applying a unique MIRT formulation that combines the two models
	- Some skills could also be deterministic based on [[DINA]]
- Add a slip term if one is not being used
- Combining skills as a skill
- Often times the questions with the highest discrimination are the least useful in practice
- Improve performance by mining the interrelations of concepts and excluding spaces in the Q matrix where concepts never overlap. Alternatively mine the relationships between concepts based on where and how often they overlap
	- This might already happen in [[Chen, Xiangzhi, et al. 2024]]
- [[IRT]] shows much lower accuracy than AUC on weak coverage split, maybe I can mine a cutoff, may not be a problem with neural models though
## Implemented improvements
- reduced underflow in IRT model by stabilizing the update of the prior distribution
